README.md, before:

## jProt

This is a library for dealing with Protein structures.

* Protein Comparison
* Anything else we decide to add

## Installation

You will need to install the gradle package manager onto your machine

1. Clone the project
2. `gradle install`
3. create new environment variable JPROTDIR and set it to location to location of jProtein source
4. Add to your CLASSPATH $JPROTDIR/build/lib/jProt.jar (if you want to import jProtein into your own projects)
5. Add to your PATH $JPROTDIR/build/executables
6. Now you can import the library into any java project you write, and you can run any of the
   executables provided by jProtein.

## Usage
This project is managed by gradle.

to build:

`gradle build`

to build javadoc:

`gradle javadoc`

to see list of tasks you can do with gradle (essentially get help):

`gradle tasks`

if you issue the command:

`gradle install`

gradle will do a couple things. It will create and install the jar and
executables to your local maven repository (for archival purposes). 
The maven local repository is located in ~/.m2/respository.
It will also generate the javadocs, zip them up, and install them to the 
$JPROTDIR/distributions and the maven local repository.

Workflow, as developing, compile and test using `gradle build`. When it is
time to make a minor release, use `gradle install` to install jars, 
executables, and javadoc archive to local maven repository. 

If you are developing within jProtein, when you create a new executable, you must
add it to the build.gradle script for it to compile (see the end of build.gradle). 
The executable start scripts will ignore your CLASSPATH in lieu of the latest 
compiled jar in $JPROTDIR/build/lib/. If you are developing outside of jProtein,
that is writing your own programs that depend on jProtein, you need to make
sure your CLASSPATH includes the location of your jProtein jar.

## javadoc

You can generate the latest javadocs via:

`gradle javadoc`

They will be located within the build/docs/javadoc directory in the project.

Javadoc for the most recent minor release of the library can be found at [jprotein.aaronpmaus.com](http://jprotein.aaronpmaus.com).
## Contributing
1. Fork it!
2. Create your feature branch: `git checkout -b my-new-feature`
3. Commit your changes: `git commit -am 'Add some feature'`
4. Push to the branch: `git push origin my-new-feature`
5. Submit a pull request :D

## History
This project was started in June 2016.

## Credits
Aaron Maus

## License
TODO: Write license

Commit message:

added explanation to README about the jMath dependency

README.md, after:

## jProt

This is a library for dealing with Protein structures.

* Protein Comparison
* Anything else we decide to add

## Installation

You will need to install the gradle package manager and jMath onto your machine.

1. Clone the project
2. `gradle install`
3. create new environment variable JPROTDIR and set it to location to location of jProtein source
4. Add to your CLASSPATH $JPROTDIR/build/lib/jProt.jar (if you want to import jProtein into your own projects)
5. Add to your PATH $JPROTDIR/build/executables
6. Now you can import the library into any java project you write, and you can run any of the
   executables provided by jProtein.

Note about jMath. Right now, I don't have my projects pushing their artifacts to a remote gradle 
(maven or ivy) repository. The dependency resolution in jProtein depends on jMath being in your
local maven repository. To accomplish this, clone jMath. cd into it. `gradle install`. This will
compile and install the jar into your default maven repository. Then you will be able to build,
install, run jProtein. In the future, these projects will be pushed to a remote repository.

## Usage
This project is managed by gradle.

to build:

`gradle build`

to build javadoc:

`gradle javadoc`

to see list of tasks you can do with gradle (essentially get help):

`gradle tasks`

if you issue the command:

`gradle install`

gradle will do a couple things. It will create and install the jar and
executables to your local maven repository (for archival purposes). 
The maven local repository is located in ~/.m2/respository.
It will also generate the javadocs, zip them up, and install them to the 
$JPROTDIR/distributions and the maven local repository.

Workflow, as developing, compile and test using `gradle build`. When it is
time to make a minor release, use `gradle install` to install jars, 
executables, and javadoc archive to local maven repository. 

If you are developing within jProtein, when you create a new executable, you must
add it to the build.gradle script for it to compile (see the end of build.gradle). 
The executable start scripts will ignore your CLASSPATH in lieu of the latest 
compiled jar in $JPROTDIR/build/lib/. If you are developing outside of jProtein,
that is writing your own programs that depend on jProtein, you need to make
sure your CLASSPATH includes the location of your jProtein jar.

## javadoc

You can generate the latest javadocs via:

`gradle javadoc`

They will be located within the build/docs/javadoc directory in the project.

Javadoc for the most recent minor release of the library can be found at [jprotein.aaronpmaus.com](http://jprotein.aaronpmaus.com).
## Contributing
1. Fork it!
2. Create your feature branch: `git checkout -b my-new-feature`
3. Commit your changes: `git commit -am 'Add some feature'`
4. Push to the branch: `git push origin my-new-feature`
5. Submit a pull request :D

## History
This project was started in June 2016.

## Credits
Aaron Maus

## License
TODO: Write license
